== Active Model Serializers Presentation

July 23 2013, URUG slc.rb

== How to navigate this repository

There are two commits to look at:

commit hash cdeb3a00935ef984e6aa07811e6c81023025280e
This is the first version of the app, where the json is generated using as_json() overrides
(navigate to this via "git checkout cdeb3a00935ef984e6aa07811e6c81023025280e")


commit hash bbd8046fb0fa6f70ba3ce1d6aafcc78232bca966
This is the same code converted to using serializers
(navigate to this via "git checkout bbd8046fb0fa6f70ba3ce1d6aafcc78232bca966")

== How to use this app

run rake:db:migrate first.

Create a user at /sign_up

Create an image with the rails console ("rails c") and the following:

  Image.create!(:user_id => '1', :url => "http://placekitten.com/200/300")

There is no web interface. Hit the following JSON urls directly:

/images.json
/images/1.json

You can log in to the app at /sign_in

You can log out by issuing a DELETE to /sign_out

== Presentation notes

ruby is increasingly becoming the backend workhorse


front ends are moving from server-side html to client-side js


get data from the backend to the frontend


json is preferred


show small example of respond_with


easy right?


what if you want to better control the json?
..I don't want column X
..I want some "virtual column" Y
..I want nested objects?


override to_json/as_json
..which is it?
..not obvious when to use to_json or as_json


check stack overflow


they say "try active record serializer"


we will.  show example app using as_json():


schema:

  Users:
       id
       first_name
       last_name
       email
       encrypted_password
  Pictures
       id
       user_id
       uri


we want to send the json for the picture.
Easy: respond_with(Picture.find(params[:id]))


We want to include the user information:


old way would be to override to_json/as_json:
  def as_json … end


new way, serializers


add serializer to gemfile
  gem 'active_model_serializers'


rails g serializer post


serializers support associations, but they don't work how you think
  ..has_one
  ..has_many
  ..no belongs_to
  ..no habtm

the associations reference the realtionships of the SERIALIZERS, not the models


also works with render()


method calls: name()


exclude email and enc_password (include_[ATTRIBUTE]? or include_associations!), only exclude those when the user themselves is logged in (current_user)
Have access to fun things like:
     :attributes - attributes in the serializer, not the model
     routing helper
     options -:options - {:prefixes=>["images", "application"], :template=>"show", :layout=>#<Proc:0x007fa9639d4e50@/Users/mnielsen/.rvm/gems/ruby-1.9.3-p392@amspu/gems/actionpack-3.2.12/lib/abstract_controller/layouts.rb:383>, :scope=>nil, :scope_name=>:current_user, :url_options=>{:host=>"localhost", :port=>3000, :protocol=>"http://", :_path_segments=>{:action=>"show", :controller=>"images", :id=>"1"}, :script_name=>""}, :hash=>{}, :unique_values=>{}}


specify serializer:
render json: @post, serializer: FancyPostSerializer
render json: @posts, each_serializer: FancyPostSerializer

caching

add 'cached' directive
add cache_key() method
Disabling the root element


specifying serialization type:
attributes :id, {full_name: :string}

